Well we're getting now to the more difficult parts of our U-V mapping.
I'm going to switch over to the texture view and this is what we've done so far we've done the shoulder
the tunic the glove and the leg.
I'm probably going to be mirroring these over the glove the leg here so I'm not doing the other side
right now but what I'd like to do now is these straps.
Let's see what it's going to take to get these done.
So I'm going to go ahead and select him and I'll go back to solid view here and let's figure out what
kind of seams we need to mark for this.
I'm going to try and press Allt and select this edge right here and that looks like it goes all the
way down to here.
Continue with it and shift and clicking here and that looks like it goes all the way around there so
let's go ahead and mark a seam there.
And I'll try the same thing down here Allt and select And let's see how far that goes right about to
here and I'll press alt and shift and see what I can add to it like that and then down here like this.
All right I've got that.
Press Control E and Mark seam.
Now let's come over here and let's work on the seam here.
I'll press alt and click.
That doesn't take me very far.
How about let's continue on down here.
I'm just pressing alt and shift and then I'll press control E and Mark seem all right we've got those
seams marked looks good Let's come around here and do that to the back.
I'll select this one and this one looks like that connected up so I'll press control E and Mark seam.
And how about over here.
Let's try this what I want to do is select this whole area with the L key and then we go and for Selecta
linked I'll come back up here for material so that selects that entire torso.
And now press shift h to hide all of that.
So I can work on this a little better and see if we're getting all the edges.
So this helps.
Yeah I'll go ahead and re Mark this seam here now.
And I'll do the same over here.
You know Rigaud Let's try it.
What I want to do is I'm going to hover over the strap and press the L key again but this time I'm going
to switch back to choosing it or limiting it by the seam.
And there we have just the strap.
All right.
Let's go over to our U-V editing view here.
And with this selected press you and unwrap
what do you think of that that's not too bad actually.
I'm a little surprised at how well that turned out.
It looks pretty good.
All right.
Let's go ahead and work with that.
So now what we can do is begin selecting these areas down here that have been marked out by the seams.
We just did.
Let's take this now and press you and unwrap and see how that works.
That's not bad.
All right.
The next one.
Let's take a look at this right here.
I think we're going to have to do something with this.
We can't leave the arm or the glove here connected so I better split this off.
I'm going to select this edge with all click and then I'll press control E and this time I'll choose
edge split just to separate that from the rest of the torso and then I'll select this piece here.
And let's just try and unwrap this.
Actually I think what I'm going to need to do is create a seam right in here right underneath the arm
actually right here.
I'll choose alt and click that scene right there.
And I don't need it to come all the way over so I'll de-select these.
We've already got the belts done so I don't need that now press control.
Me and Mark seem.
And we go.
Now if I hover over this and press l I'll press you and unwrap.
That's not too bad either.
All right.
Now the next part this is the more complex part that we're going to have to actually think about.
I'm going to come back to the default view here and let's think a little bit about this.
Well we know we're going to need a seam down here just like we had for this arm.
We know we're going to need a seam down here like this.
Maybe let's make it more like this.
There we go like that.
All right so we know we've got that underneath the arm Let's go ahead and mark that scene.
We probably are going to need to split this head off like this as much as I don't want to since this
is all a continuous space or would be a continuous texture.
I hate to break that up for fear of having a visible seam but I'm not seeing at least right now another
way of doing that.
Actually before I do that let's just test this.
I'm going to go back to my U-V editing view and I'm going to hover over this and press.
Well let's just test it.
I'm depressed.
You and unwrap not great not great look at the way the head just collapses in there.
So that's going to have to be broken out.
All right.
So it doesn't look like I'm going to get away with just that seem on this.
So let's go ahead and try this.
I'm going to select this team now and I'll go ahead and select it all the way around to here and here.
All right so Mark seeing him do that and then probably back here.
I'm going to select this and then control click on up to here like that.
Bring that seam up here.
Maybe not that high.
And usually for a head like this you want kind of a T shape may be coming off like this and maybe they
could connect up with the ears.
Let's just test that control e Mark seem all right so with those seams select let's just hover over
the head and select that and let's just test these particular seams on a press you and unwrap.
And that's a little better so we can begin to see the face on here.
I'm going to go ahead and select all of this with the eight key and press R and rotated a bit just to
try and line up those texture pattern just so I can see it and take a look at this and see if there's
a whole lot of stretching is not bad on the face.
And we've got the ears that are pretty stretched so it looks like we're going to have to select the
seams for the ears around here.
Like this.
I'll go ahead and mark seem so I'll hover over the ear and press the L key and the head and press the
key and let's try these again.
I'll unwrap this and see how the ear breaks out.
That breaks out kind of oddly we're going to need a seam there as well maybe a seam would be best down
underneath the ear where we wouldn't see it very well.
You always want to hide those seams whenever you can.
So let's try this
and we go and try that again you and unwrap.
That's better.
That's looking pretty good for the ear.
I'll go ahead and do that same thing for the ear over here.
All right with that ear mark.
Let's go ahead and unwrap this see how it works.
That is not looking too bad.
There is a bit of stretching here around the face.
These are a little bit bigger than the rest of the head.
One way that we might be able to alleviate that is a seam down here.
I'm not sure I want to do it but I'm going to try it and see
what's Markis seem right here and try this
a little bit better.
I'm not sure I like the fact that these textures are a little bit smaller than the rest of the torso
but I can always arrange them and scale them in the U-V Ed. We're getting there.
I'm not totally happy with it yet but what we can do is we can test this.
What I'm going to do is select everything just with the A key and I'm going to come over here and with
the A key select everything to make sure all the U-V islands are selected.
And then if you come down here to Uvas you can see you've got this average Island scale and pack islands.
So average Island scale will make all of these proportionally the size that they are and the 3-D view
and then pack islands will pack it all into the UV-A edited here all into this square.
So what I'll do is I'll press control a.
And that makes everything about the same size.
And then I'll press control P and pack it in.
Now it didn't pack it in very efficiently and that's ok.
I just wanted to test this.
I think in the next video what we should do is work with the U-V editing tools over in the U-V editor
to try and read proportioned the face to match the rest of the body.
So stay tuned for that in the next video.